Let's first talk about ES
module imports and exports.
And as usual,
I'm gonna switch over to VS code.
It's exactly the same examples
that you see on the website.
So if you prefer to read,
you can follow along, but
I like to show you hands on how this
works so I can poke at things and
screw them up and show you how
they're screwed up and then fix them.
Sometimes that helps to
land some of these points.
So without further delay,
let's look at index.ts here.
So whenever I have a folder like this,
it's an indication that we benefit
from having multiple files here.
We're talking about imports and
exports and why fake it in a file?
We can have multiple files and
see how this actually works.
Index is where we're gonna begin.
That's sort of the entry point.
So let's talk about ES module imports and
exports.
What we have here are a bunch
of examples of named imports,
a bunch of different varieties
of things that we can do.
First off, we have some named imports here
that involve consuming named exports.
So that would be something like
this on the export side, right?
Export class FruitBasket,
something like that.
And then you'd consume it
with the named import.
Here we're consuming a default import.
So if you did export
default class FruitBasket,
I have multiple default exports.
You know what?
There's something at the bottom.
I can fix that.
I always put this thing at the bottom.
Typescript regards each file as a module.
Export default class FruitBasket.
This is the default export.
This would be the matching
import on the other side.
You put the file name here obviously, and
then whatever locally you want to call
that name, with default imports
you get to choose your name.
You can make this Grape.
It doesn't need to match the name of
the class as defined in this key we file.
That's your local name.
It's almost like a variable.
Not true for this syntax, but
you could rename it you could do this.
Come on tooltip overload here.
Something like that Grapes, so
this is an alias where you can say,
all right, in this file I'm importing
from it's exported as Blueberry but
within my file I want to call it Grapes,
which you have that option.
And I only tend to do that when
there's a collision between things.
Generic things like builder,
or form, or error.
Usually if you can have a couple of
those playing together side by side and
you need some disambiguation between them.
All right, so
we talked about a named export,
that's where we don't have
the word default here.
So this would be exported
as makeFruitSalad.
This would be a default export.
There are also these
things called re-exports.
And you'll see this a lot in libraries
that sort of have a single entry point,
right, where you're just using
this library right from its root.
It's like one package that's
the name of its package.
And if you look into those projects, you
might see that there's an index.ts file
that will effectively have
no interesting code in it,
it'll just strictly be
a bunch of re-exports.
What we're saying here is,
I want to import lime and
lemon from the citrus module.
And I want to export them
as if they're my exports,
that's a re-export.
What we have here,
we would call this a namespace export.
And what we're effectively saying here
is there's a bunch of stuff on berries,
one or more things that berries, the file
exports I want to re-export it all.
Every single thing that's there.
Take the whole thing, but I want it to
be exported from this module as berries.
Here we go back to kind of a namespace
type thing where you can have a bunch of
different things hanging out there.
And if we look at berries in this case,
we can see, there are some
re-exports there, all the way down.
So we've got like a Raspberry, which has
a pick Raspberries and a Raspberry class.
So all of that would end up kinda
coming through all the way.
You can re-export as
many times as you want.
TypeScript knows how to deal with this.
So if you use like jump to definition,
or anything that would let you,
when you're consuming something from
berries, you'd say, jump to definition and
it would go to actually
where it's declared.
It would just sort of think of those
re-exports is almost like 302 redirects.
That'll just capturable
traverses through those and
then it'll send you on your way
to where you actually wanna go
All right, here's namespace imports.
This will be important as we look
at CJS modules and CJS interrupt.
So here, we can import allBerries, and
you can see here, there's our Strawberry,
Blueberry, and Raspberry.
We kind of saw that in the file, there
were clearly re-exports within those.
But if you wanna look at what allBerries
includes, it's the three classes.
And we went into the Raspberry file, we
saw there was a pickRaspberries function.
It's a separate named export.
And that's here too.
It's star.star,
send it all through, right?
That's what a namespace export does.
And you often do this,
it avoids collisions.
You could also say this.
But things might bump into each other.
You might have things in different
files that are of the same name and
it's gonna be a little bit confusing.
It's gonna be a little hard to manage.
So, it's more common to
do something like this.
If you're creating a library with
a bunch of different things available,
where do you wanna consume
the library as a whole?
Importing types.
So in this case, let's say that we
do have a Raspberry thing in scope.
We can click on this and see where
we're gonna go right to the definition.
Where did we import Raspberry?
It's from up here.
So, here we're using Raspberry
in the type position and
down here we're using it as a value.
We're actually instantiating a Raspberry.
So, we have this Raspberry
identifier in scope.
Remember that term that we
coined when we were dealing with
declaration merging, right?
It's an importable,
exportable thing, and it's a class.
And remember, we talked about how classes
can be used as a type and a value.
So we can have something like this.
We can use it as a type, and
we can use it as a value.
And in this case, we need both to
run lines 27 and 28 successfully.
We need it to be usable
in both of those forms.
But let's say we didn't care about this.
We didn't have that in our code.
We're only consuming it as a type.
Well, there's a different way to do this
and we're switching to Strawberry now
because I don't think that was
something we imported up top.
It was just Blueberry and Raspberry.
So we can import type Strawberry,
and look how we can't actually use
Strawberry to create an instance we
don't have the value in this scope.
We can use it as a type, but
what's the error we get here,
cannot be used as value cuz it
was imported using import type.
Now, Typescript is actually
quite smart about this.
So if we just had a piece of
code like this, where Raspberry
doesn't happen to be used as a value,
types of people kind of erase
the import of Raspberry when it
compiles down to JavaScript.
It will be able to detect that although
we imported this conventionally,
that we didn't have this here,
we just had import Raspberry that
was up at the top here, there it is.
TypeScript will be smart enough cuz it
does a holistic analysis of our program
and it'll say,
you never actually instantiated Raspberry.
You just use the interface
side of the class.
And so we won't include
that module in your bundle.
There will be no resultant import.
Bug Workbench.
I think this is the thing that will
understand multiple files, and
indeed it does.
If you ever wanna go to this mode here,
it's typescriptlang.org/dev/bug-workbench.
This is what gives you some of
the special syntax that I use.
Here where I've got file name and
sometimes I have a little like caret.
This is a little aside, but
I have little symbols that make those tool
tips pop up sometimes not in this page,
but that's, that's kind of
what we're working with here.
So we've talked about importing types.
We talked about type-only imports.
Let's look at an example where we can
see the resultant JavaScript code
that comes from some examples here.
So what we have here, y = foo, so
I'm just gonna create a variable here so
we can see where it pops up,
and down here,
this piece of code,
you can see that this is
the code that represents
this index .ts file.
And what you can see here,
if I comment this line out,
just note this section here at the bottom,
then I'm gonna uncomment it.
So, you see how it's saying file name
index.ts and it's added this require here.
This is TypeScript saying you're
actually using this as a value and
when we compile this code and
you need to run it somewhere,
we really need to import this thing.
Before I did this, before I added line
16 here, I can make it a little bigger.
Before I added line 16,
there was no need to import this.
It's something that could sort of just
melt away as part of the type checking
process, but we've crossed a threshold and
we can go back over it and
watch it disappear.
Look at that.
See, there's the comment and
then it's back, right?
As soon as we need to use it as a value,
TypeScript knows about this and
it really becomes an import.
It's part of the compiled result.
That's what TypeScript does.
If you use Babel, if you use Webpack,
other bundlers like that,
at first glance,
they might say they work with TypeScript,
which is true, but
they don't understand TypeScript.
They effectively just know which parts
of syntax they can safely ignore or
delete as part of producing
result in JavaScript.
And they operate in a mode maybe we
can even do it here if I zoom out.
There's a mode the compiler can
run in called isolated modules.
It probably won't work in the playground,
so we won't do this.
But really,
each module is being transformed from
TypeScript to JavaScript one at a time.
There's no holistic analysis across files.
And so what that means is you're
always gonna see that import.
There's there's no knowing whether
this is a type or a value or
what kinds of things you're using it as,
when Babel goes through and
it looks at this it just knows that
it can eat that piece of syntax and
not include it in the resultant JavaScript
file, it's not doing type checking.
Now if you're using TypeScript with
Babel or TypeScript with Webpack,
something like that, TSC,
that TypeScript CLI command, or
the programmatic equivalent,
it will type check your code, right?
So you'll see errors and things.
You'll see the same kind of developer
feedback as if you were using
TypeScript to actually
admit your JavaScript.
So you won't suffer there, but
where you will suffer is code splitting or
dead code elimination.
You'll have all of these imports in
a variety of places where they could
safely be discarded.
But the fact that all Babel or webpack
knows how to do is lose pieces of syntax.
It doesn't have the holistic understanding
of your program that's necessary to know
that an import is safe to disregard,
so it includes all of them.
Now, that is the main
motivating statement for
why you would want to
use a type-only import.
It does two things.
One is, it'll bust you if you attempt
to use a type-only import as if
it's a conventional import.
And then the second thing is, webpack and
Babel and other similar tools, they
know that this is a type-only import and
they know that it is safe to drop this.
Because the type checking is enforcing
that it will be safe to drop.
That is the importance of,
using type-only imports.
It allows you to avoid entangling
with other modules when it comes to
code splitting or tree shaking.
Sometimes it's called tree shaking.
It's dead code elimination is
what's happening behind the scenes.
But it allows you to really
shake this modules loose,
cuz we don't really need
Strawberry at runtime.
We just need it for type checking.
That makes sense?
And if you're writing
a library by the way,
it's gonna get used in Webpack or Babel.
It's a good idea to use this,
especially if other people might consume
your code and use it in different ways.
So I tend to use these whenever
I just need the types.
Yes?
>> Is there a TS config that
will just warn you if you
forget to be explicit about it?
>> There's probably a lint roll,
but not not a TS
config option that I'm aware of,
>> Okay, cuz it seems like something easy
to overlook or forget or maybe you were
using it now you removed it and you-.
>> It is and even if you try
to be vigilant and you say,
I'm gonna start out with
the type-only import and
when I crossed that threshold I will
make it a proper conventional import.
But then you could delete that, right?
And then there's nothing there
to help you stay in sync.
If that lint roll doesn't exist yet,
hello, open source community.
There's a very good lint
roll opportunity here.
If it doesn't exist yet,
maybe go build it.